JASA Sharing Reproducible Materials over Github
================

## Directory structure

The repo has the following directory structure.

    ## 
    ## project directory
    ##   |-- acc_form.Rmd
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):file
    ##   |-- jasa-repro-template.Rproj
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):file
    ##   |-- README.Rmd
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):file
    ##   |-- README.md
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):file
    ##   |-- analysis/
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):dir
    ##   |-- data/
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):dir
    ##   |-- manuscript/
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):dir
    ##   |-- output/
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):dir
    ##   |-- preprocessing/
    ##   |  o-- object of type(s):dir
    ##   o-- revn/
    ##      o-- object of type(s):dir

Each of the files and subdirectories in this repository are described
below.

-   `README.Rmd/md`: Read me explaining how to reproduce materials in
    this repository
-   `acc_form.Rmd/html`: Reproducibility checklist (not currently
    complete)
-   `analysis/`
    -   `202112_dataAnalysis.Rmd/.html`: Code/output for processing raw
        paw trajectory data and generating Figures 1, 6, and 7 in the
        manuscript.
    -   `202112_simulation_results.Rmd/.html`: Code/output for
        processing simulation results and generating Figures 2, 3, 4,
        and 5 in the manuscript.
-   `data/`: Raw paw trajectory data (not currently included)
-   `manuscript/`: manuscript files including `.Rmd` template
-   `output/`: Figures, data analysis, and simulation results
    -   `*.png`: Figures from the manuscript
    -   `px_results.RData`: Data analysis x-axis results from `flode`
        model, executed by running `202112_dataAnalysis.Rmd`.
    -   `py_results.RData`: Data analysis y-axis results.
    -   `pz_results.RData`: Data analysis z-axis results.
    -   `simulation_results/`
        -   `*.RDA`: Output from simulation scenarios executed by
            running scripts in `../preprocessing/simulations`.
-   `preprocessing/`: Source files for executing core modeling code,
    generating simulated data, and running simulations
    -   `estimate_flode.R`: Defines function for estimating `flode`
        model using EM algorithm
    -   `make_pffr.R`: Defines function for running functional
        historical regression model and processing surfaces for
        visualization
    -   `search_alpha.R`: Defines function to perform grid search over
        possible *α*<sub>0</sub> values to choose best initial value.
    -   `simulated_paw.R`: Defines function for simulating data.
    -   `utils.R`: Defines helper functions called in the
        `estimate_flode.R` file.
    -   `simulations/`: File for generating simulation results across
        all simulation scenarios.
        -   `20211227_simulations_flodeVSfhist.R`: Compares flode and
            functional historical regression across 9 alpha values for
            30 datasets each.
        -   `20211228_simulations_flode.R`: Evaluates flode across 4
            sample sizes and 3 alpha values for 30 datasets each.

## Workflow

Describe file structure and workflow here

-   Slow steps are cached or saved as R data objects that are read in
    the next time a file is run- this makes it faster to run the
    Rmarkdown files that generate analysis results

1.  Execute the file `202112_simulation_results.Rmd` to create Figures
    2, 3, 4 and 5 and save them as `.png` files in the `output` folder.

2.  Execute the file `202112_dataAnalysis.Rmd` to create Figures 1, 6,
    and 7 and save them as `.png` files in the `output` folder. Also
    creates and saves to `output` a dataframe of computation times and
    parameter values that are reported as part of inline text in the
    `manuscript.Rmd`. This allows all inline `R` code from the
    `manuscript.Rmd` to be fully reproducible (not entered by hand).

3.  To generate the manuscript knit the file `manuscript.Rmd` in the
    `manuscript` folder. This does not execute the full analysis but
    reads in figures and numbers in the `output` folder generated by
    knitting `202112_simulation_results.Rmd` and
    `202112_dataAnalysis.Rmd`.

## Other thoughts

-   easily could have this same format whether manuscripts are generated
    using R Markdown or Latex
-   probably best to have users clone the repo rather than fork it so
    they can rename it?
